MABEL PINES
Mabel Pines (born August 31, 1999) is an optimistic, outgoing and full of life 13-year-old girl (12 prior to the events of the finale), and is one of the two main protagonists of the series. Alongside her twin brother Dipper, she spends the summer of 2012 with her Great Uncle "Grunkle" Stan in Gravity Falls, Oregon, where she and her brother frequently encounter the supernatural. Armed with her grappling hook that she found in the Mystery Shack gift shop, she and Dipper work together to navigate their way around odd, new surroundings and seek out and uncover the town's mysterious secrets. Mabel represents the shooting star symbol associated with the Bill Cipher Zodiac, as it is present on one of her sweaters. History Early life Mabel was born on August 31. She claims to have shown a "natural gift" for art since she was two years old. She and Dipper were raised non-religious, but celebrate all holidays at her insistence. Since the age of three, Mabel has celebrated Halloween in Piedmont with Dipper Pines. At age nine, she won a mini-golf tournament, and from then on, she has been amazing at it. In "The Inconveniencing," When Mabel goes to Dusk 2 Dawn with her brother, Wendy, and her friends, she stumbles upon a banned candy called Smile Dip. Mabel then eats about half of the shelf, or "Bleventeen" as she puts it, and begins to hallucinate. She had a psychedelic fantasy of riding on a flying dolphin with two mouths and multiple human fists (two contained within said mouths) capable of shooting rainbows. Soon the store is taken over by ghosts, and they possess Mabel to communicate with the teenagers. In "Double Dipper," when the Mystery Shack hosts a party, Mabel begs Stan to let her mingle with other kids. He eventually relents and gives her job to Dipper. She then meets Grenda Grendinator and Candy Chiu at the party, who soon become her best friends. They tell her about Pacifica Northwest, the most popular girl in Gravity Falls. Pacifica makes fun of Candy and Grenda, so Mabel steps up to compete with her in a competition to see who could "party-hardy," engaging in activities like singing and dancing. Though Mabel initially receives the audience's vote in the form of applause, Pacifica intimidates the party-goers to cheer for her by using an ice-cold glare, and bribes Old Man McGucket. Unlike most of the other guests, who go off to Pacifica's after-party, Candy and Grenda stay at the Shack and have a sleepover with their new friend. During "Irrational Treasure," which happens on Pioneer Day, she runs into Pacifica again, where she says Mabel is too silly and not serious. This makes Mabel angry and embarrassed, so she goes with Dipper to find the true founder of Gravity falls, knowing that conspiracies are serious. After going through many "hard" puzzles, Mabel cracks them all using her silliness, like folding the secret map into a hat, looking at a painting upside down, and making a statue pick her nose. After finding the real founder, Quentin Trembley, they also find out that he was once the eighth-and-a-half president of America. To their surprise, Sheriff Blubs and Deputy Durland find them and send them, along with Trembley's body, to Washington D.C. On the way there, they free Trembley and find out that he survived by encasing himself in peanut brittle. They free themselves and eventually return to Gravity Falls. Mabel no longer wants to prove Pacifica wrong, but this does not stop Dipper and he tells Pacifica that her ancestor is a fraud. She...

---

DIPPER PINES
Mason "Dipper" Pines (born August 31, 1999) is a smart, curious, and adventurous 13-year-old boy (12 prior to the events of the finale), and is one of the two main heroes of the series. Alongside his twin sister Mabel, he spends the summer of 2012 with his Great Uncle "Grunkle" Stan in Gravity Falls, Oregon, where he and his sister constantly encounter the town's paranormal tendencies. Armed with Journal 3 that he found in a hidden buried compartment in the Gravity Falls Forest, he and Mabel work to seek out and uncover the town's mysterious secrets. Dipper represents the pine tree symbol associated with the Bill Cipher Zodiac, as it is present on his hat. History Early life Dipper was born on August 31, 1999. His family lives in . At a young age, Dipper's mother would dress him up in a lamb costume and have him perform his signature song and dance, the "Lamby Lamby Dance". Since he was young, his favorite holiday has been Halloween, of which his favorite part is trick-or-treating with Mabel. He is also known to have been teased about his birthmark by other children until he started hiding it, which may be how he earned his nickname when he was no older than five. He also attended Eggbert Elementary with his sister. Arrival in Gravity Falls Sometime during the month of June, Dipper and his twin sister Mabel were sent north up the coast At the very end of the episode, the camera pans into the water, revealing a real Gobblewonker swimming in the depths. In "Headhunters," Dipper and Mabel help Stan uncover the case of Wax Stan's murder, mainly due to Sheriff Blubs and Deputy Durland being lazy and calling the case unsolvable. The twins first went to interrogate Manly Dan, the lumberjack at the downtown biker joint named Skull Fracture, after finding an axe at the crime scene (with some footprints with holes in them leading to said axe). Manly Dan then reported the ax was left-handed, while Dan's dominant hand is right, narrowing the suspects down to one: Toby Determined, who is left-handed and whose shoe has a hole in it. He then revealed he was kissing a cardboard cutout of Shandra Jimenez, the news reporter, at 10:00 PM, the time of the murder, proving himself innocent. Dipper didn't find out who murdered Wax Stan until Wax Stan's funeral. Dipper, at the funeral, uncovers that Wax Sherlock Holmes and all the other wax figures were involved in the murder of Wax Stan. The murder was committed by Wax Sherlock Holmes because he beheaded Wax Stan and left the holed footprints in the shag carpet along with the ax, which were Mabel and Dipper's first clues. Dipper and Mabel then battled the wax figures, successfully killing most, like decapitating Wax Larry King, whose head is still in the vents, which was revealed in the end credits. Dipper then only had to battle Wax Sherlock Holmes, the true killer. He tricked Holmes to chase him to the Mystery Shack's roof, and the wax figure melted when the sun came up. In "The Inconveniencing," Dipper and Mabel pretend to be thirteen so they can go to the haunted convenience store, Dusk 2 Dawn with Wendy and her friends. Dipper convinces Mabel to pretend to be thirteen so he can get closer to Wendy. Wendy, her friends, Mabel, and Dipper are all horsing around in the store when Dipper goes to get more ice to dump into Thompson's pants. He then sees a headless brain with bloodshot eyeballs staring back at him. He screams and...

---

WENDY CORDUROY
Wendy Blerble Corduroy Fun-loving and rebellious, she frequently shirks responsibility for activities that she finds more enjoyable, such as hanging out with her rambunctious friends or going on adventures with Dipper and Mabel Pines. Wendy represents the bag of ice symbol associated with the Bill Cipher Zodiac, due to her cool demeanor in the face of danger. History Season 1 In "Tourist Trapped," Wendy makes her debut when Stan asks her to put up some signs advertising the Mystery Shack in the "spooky" part of the woods. She is reading a magazine at the counter and claims that "she can't reach it," not even trying to reach for them. Later in the episode, she gives Dipper the keys to the Mystery Cart and tells him, "Try not to hit any pedestrians!" a fair complexion, a turned up nose, and some freckles. She has long red hair just past her hips. Wendy is usually seen wearing a tan and dark brown trapper hat, most likely because Manly Dan, her father, is a lumberjack. Her standard outfit is an emerald green plaid shirt with a white tank top underneath, green stub earrings, dark blue jeans, and muddy rain boots, with yellow and orange socks underneath. She wears a name tag at work. When Wendy was younger, she used to wear braces, pigtails, a green/white short-sleeved blouse and high-wasted jeans. She was also really tall for her age, as revealed in "Double Dipper." Despite their overall positive relationship, Wendy is sometimes critical of her young friend, and Mabel frequently assists her brother in his attempts to impress Wendy. On the other hand, Wendy lacks respect for her employer and often engages in activities contrary to his wishes, mostly slacking off on the job and at an unknown point they became good friends. At some point, Robbie developed a crush on Wendy and tried to impress her until she agreed to begin an official relationship. During their time dating, he continually showed off and brawled with Dipper, thus irritating her. Wendy becomes furious and fed up with Robbie's condescending and dishonest nature, ending their relationship on the spot. When Wendy found out she was dating Robbie in "The Love God," she angrily stated it was typical for her to date her ex-boyfriend behind her back, but by the end of the episode, they reconciled. Wendy was among the people Tambry sent Thompson's embarrassing picture to in "Scary-oke." Lee, Nate, and Thompson Robbie, Lee, Nate, Tambry and Thompson are among Wendy's closest friends in her own group, and all of them like to hang out in various places, doing various activities, many of them rebellious. Alex Hirsch has said that "the first girl who ever talked to [him] when [he] was around eleven inspired Wendy." He also said that to create Wendy, he tried to channel the "cool energy" of many people he has known who are way cooler than him into one character. Many people who worked on Gravity Falls contributed with thoughts about the coolest people they know. However, Alex's ideas inspired only her personality, because Wendy's appearance changed a lot during the series' production process, as can be seen comparing the differences of final Wendy to the concept and production artwork, and to her appearance at the end of the unaired pilot. *In the original pilot pitch bible, Wendy is a much different character to her final series version: **Wendy is implied to be a vegan/hippie who sells weird tasting juice out of the back of her van, that both Dipper and Mabel cannot stomach to drink. **Unlike in the series, Wendy...

---

GIDEON GLEEFUL
"Lil'" Gideon Charles Gleeful (born early July 2002) Season 2 He briefly appears in "Scary-oke," seeing the light from Stan's machine in his jail cell. At the grand re-opening of the Mystery Shack, visitors boo at a toy of Gideon. Stan encourages them to do it harder. However, Dipper wonders why Gideon wanted the journals so badly, as he almost destroyed the town to do it. In "Sock Opera," Gideon was mentioned by Dipper when he had a reencounter with Bill Cipher. Later in "Society of the Blind Eye," a picture of him is seen in Mabel's scrapbook. In "Blendin's Game," he is briefly seen as a baby on Bud Gleeful's advertisement poster and in a baby stroller as his parents take him down the street. In "The Stanchurian Candidate," after the death of Mayor Befufftlefumpter, he has Bud run for mayor, so he can pardon his son and get him out of prison. During the campaign, he communicates with his father from a screen in prison, saying he is not having a good day in prison. When Bud starts falling behind in the race, because of Stan, Gideon decides to take control of his body with a spell from a page from Journal 2 he kept in his hair. During the final debate, he reveals himself to Dipper and Mabel, and tries to blow them up with fireworks, but fails. His actions cause his father to lose the debate and the mayorship. Later, he makes friends with Ghost Eyes. Then he rips a poster off the wall of his cell and draws an eye on the Zodiac, saying he's ready to make a deal with Bill. In "The Last Mabelcorn," Gideon is mentioned when Bill is explaining to Ford that he's been making deals and chatting with old friends for his eventual return. In "Weirdmageddon Part 1," Gideon and his fellow inmates break out of prison and are recruited by Bill to protect the cage of Mabel. However, Dipper manages to convince Gideon that Mabel would not love him should he not let the trio free her, and in the end, after being promised Dipper would tell Mabel what Gideon had done, he leads his inmates to fend off the oncoming minions of Bill Cipher. In "Weirdmageddon 2: Escape From Reality," Gideon is mentioned when Keyhole informs Bill that he allowed the Pines twins to escape and enter Mabel's bubble. Bill tells Keyhole to bring Gideon to him. In "Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back The Falls," Gideon is shown in a cage, and explains that Bill captured him and has been forcing him to do cute dances for all of eternity, traumatizing him to the point where he announces that he is "sick of being cute". He then tells Dipper how to undo the throne of human agony, which results in one of the residents knocking his cage down, setting him free for good. When Ford draws the Zodiac on the floor, Gideon is instructed to stand on the Tent of Telepathy sign. However, due to Stan and Ford's bickering, Bill's wheel does not work, and Gideon along with every other non-Pines is turned into a tapestry. Fortunately, Stan manages to destroy Bill by tricking him into going into his mind, allowing Ford to erase Stan's memory in order to wipe Bill from existence, which finally turned Gideon and the others back to normal. After Weirdmageddon ended, Gideon and his family came to Dipper and Mabel's 13th birthday party, and he states that thanks to their heroic efforts, he will no longer do evil anymore and try to be little...

---

MULTI-BEAR
The Multi-Bear is a magical beast who lives in a cave at the top of a high mountain. Dipper attempted to kill it in order to attain manliness. It has eight heads, with one main intelligent head that is also capable of human speech. History Season 1 attacking the Multi-Bear.]] Dipper was sent by the Manotaurs to kill the Multi-Bear and bring back one of its heads as the final test to prove his manliness. When Dipper arrived, the Multi-Bear, showing a surprising degree of civility, told Dipper that to fight him would be foolish, and that if he didn't leave, he would kill him. However, Dipper refused to leave, and as such, the Multi-Bear carried out his threat, and engaged Dipper in combat. Unfortunately for him, the Multi-Bear found Dipper to be too agile and small of frame, toppling onto his back after being choked with the grip of Dipper's spear. Staring death in the face, the Multi-Bear accepted his fate, asking for but one last request: to die while listening to his favorite song. Dipper, being nothing if not sporting, granted his request, but found to his surprise that the Multi-Bear's favorite song was Icelandic pop sensation BABBA's "Disco Girl," a song he himself was fond of. Upon discovering this common interest, the Multi-Bear and Dipper held a brief dialogue on the subject, before being brought back to the matter at hand. Being an honorable beast, the Multi-Bear made no attempt to take advantage of the situation, preparing to receive a finishing blow. However, he never received it, as Dipper refused to kill the beast after finding out that he "is a really nice guy." Upon doing this, Dipper, according to the Manotaurs, did not acquire manliness. Season 2 A miniature-model of him is seen in "The Love God" when Mabel is trying to decide who could potentially be Robbie's date. In "Weirdmageddon 2: Escape From Reality," the Multi-Bear, now wearing eye-patches, has taken refuge in the Mystery Shack, along with townsfolk and other creatures Dipper and Mabel met during summer, led by Stan: after Dipper and Mabel find their way back to the Shack, the Multi-Bear comes out of the bathroom, saying that they have run out of toilet paper. He also shuts the grate of the air vent from which Larry King's wax head was nibbling on Grenda's hair. In "Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back The Falls," the Multi-Bear assists in the attack on Bill Cipher and his minions, manning the Shacktron's periscopes with his multiple sets of eyes and hands. Following Bill's defeat, the Multi-Bear, now without eye-patches, is seen among other Gravity Falls creatures, waving goodbye to Dipper and Mabel as their bus drives away from Gravity Falls. Personality The Multi-Bear is initially portrayed as an angry, violent creature, dismissing Dipper as yet another challenger doomed to die. He is not afraid to defend himself, as despite Dipper's young age, he puts up quite a fight. Once bested, he shows humility and honor by accepting his death without begging or bargaining, only requesting to listen to his favorite song one last time. He gets animated when discussing his love for BABBA with Dipper, also revealing he is sensitive by recalling how the manotaurs laugh at his musical tastes. During Weirdmageddon, he shows consideration for his fellow refugees, assisting Grenda when Larry King's head chews on her hair. Appearance The Multi-Bear is a large black bear with eight heads and twelve limbs. He has one main head, capable of human speech and possessing the prime brain of the creature, which is surrounded by four other heads...

---

SOOS RAMIREZ
Jesús "Soos" Alzamirano Ramirez Season 1 Soos is first seen in "Tourist Trapped", working in the Mystery Shack. When Dipper confides to Soos that he thinks Norman may be a zombie, Soos tells him that he believes him and that he's always noticing weird things in the town. He then shares with Dipper his belief that the mailman is a werewolf because he is very hairy. Soos also tells Dipper that everyone will think Dipper is a "major league cuckoo clock" if he doesn't have evidence. When Dipper hops in the Mystery Cart to save Mabel from Norman, Soos gives him a shovel for the zombies and a baseball bat "In case he sees any piñatas," before Stan calls him. Soos' next appearance is in "The Legend of the Gobblewonker", at Lake Gravity Falls, as Dipper and Mabel are deciding they want to look for the Gobblewonker. He pulls up with a boat that is better than Stan's boat, the S.S. Cool Dude, offering to help the kids look for the monster. They accept his offer, riding with him to Scuttlebutt Island. Along the way, Soos destroys several of the many cameras that Dipper brought. He even nominates himself to be Associate Co-Captain. When they arrive at the island, he goes with Dipper and Mabel to look for the beast, making jokes along the way. The group spots what appears to be the Gobblewonker; however, it is only a colony of beavers. Soos then takes pictures of the beavers, before the real Gobblewonker arrives. Soos, along with Dipper and Mabel, is chased by the creature, until they are able to trap it in a cave behind a waterfall. There, he loses his shirt and he and the kids discover that the Gobblewonker that was trapped was not a beast, but a machine created by Old Man McGucket. Soos then tells the kids that they were the real monsters, and they all go to Grunkle Stan's boat, where Stan and the kids spend an evening of fishing and taking pictures together. .]] Soos then appears in "Headhunters", showing Dipper and Mabel the Mystery Shack's old wax museum. He later directs the twins toward Manly Dan. In "The Hand That Rocks the Mabel", Soos is seen watching Tiger Fist with Dipper and Mabel, and then Lil' Gideon's commercial, later bringing the twins to the Tent of Telepathy with him. While there, he sees his counterpart, Deuce, and glares at him. He is later seen commenting on Mabel and Gideon's relationship, and coming up with ridiculous portmanteau names for it. When Stan storms out to confront Gideon's father, Soos remarks how it would be funny if Stan had walked into a closet instead of out the real door, and opens it and says that it was the real door. In "The Inconveniencing", he works in the gift shop and advises Wendy Corduroy and the twins not to go up onto the roof. In "Dipper vs. Manliness", Soos helps Mabel help Stan get in shape by dressing up as Lazy Susan for a practice run and by helping to judge Stan's appearance. In "Double Dipper", Stan decides to set up a party at the Mystery Shack, and he allows Soos to become DJ (only because he begged and the fact that he'll do it for free). Soos even got a book that taught him how to DJ and tells Stan that he won't regret his decision. Soos hosts the party crown dance competition, a contest where whoever dances best will get the party crown. The only competitors are Mabel and Pacifica Northwest, although Pacifica...

---

BILL CIPHER
Bill Cipher is a two-dimensional interdimensional dream demon from the now destroyed dimension, Euclydia. Formerly existent only in the Mindscape, Bill briefly succeeded in gaining access to the real world and a physical form. He had been running amok in Gravity Falls, Oregon since being summoned by Ford Pines over thirty years ago. Known for his mysterious demeanor and sadistic humor, Bill is the main antagonist of the overall series. He does not play a central role in the series until his first physical appearance in "Dreamscaperers", though he is pictured throughout the entire series, such as the rug in the Mystery Shack, the window in the building's attic and is pictured in the title sequence. His impact on those he's encountered has changed them for the better or worse. History Background Over one trillion years prior to the events of the series, Bill Cipher was born. He originated from a two-dimensional universe known as Euclydia. When he was born, he had Velcro shoes that squeaked when he ran and was beloved by everyone so much that the mayor declared his birthday a national holiday. On his birthday, Bill gave out free knives to everyone as a gift. In spite of this, however, Bill despised living there, describing it as a dimension of "flat minds in a flat world with flat dreams." There was one other thing about him that was different; he had a mutation that gave him an abnormally large eye that allowed him to see the third dimension. With that, he had the ability to see a direction known as "up," something all others of his dimension could not see. Despite talk of a "third" dimension was illegal in his world, Bill was unable to think of anything else but being able to join it. Although boasting about having a good life, during an inebriated rant, he implied that his claims of a good childhood are false and that he was actually ostracized for his mutation, giving him the drive to finally make his race understand what he saw. In an event known as the "Euclidian Massacre", he "liberated" his dimension by plunging it into burning chaos, along with everyone he had ever known, including his own parents. After coming to learn of a prophecy that stated he would merge the Nightmare Realm with the third dimension, Bill started coming into contact with humans to accomplish this. Without a physical form, however, Bill could only access the dreams of the third dimension's beings. In order to make his dealings with mortals easier, he took on the name "Bill Cipher" as his real name would "evaporate one with an expression of horror and ecstasy on their face." Among his targets were the natives who lived in what would become the town of Gravity Falls, Oregon. Bill once asked a local shaman named Modoc the Wise to build an interdimensional gateway to the Nightmare Realm, but the result was made out of twigs. When Modoc learned of the prophecy that foretold of an apocalyptic event that would stem from interactions with Bill Cipher, he committed suicide by setting himself on fire in an effort to avert it. The natives eventually discovered a way to defeat Bill by using a zodiac with ten symbols. They left behind elaborate cave paintings about their encounter with the demon, including how to summon him, and more importantly, a warning never to read the incantation that would summon Bill aloud. The valley was deemed a "cursed land" by the natives, who evacuated around 1000 AD. The area would eventually be rediscovered by Quentin Trembley...

---

MYSTERY SHACK
The Mystery Shack, briefly named Murder Hut, is a house and tourist trap located in Gravity Falls, Oregon. It was formerly owned by Ford Pines, who initially built it as his main base of research and residence. After his disappearance, his twin brother Stan Pines took over the house and transformed it into a tourist trap. It is the main residence for Dipper and Mabel throughout the series, and after the summer, Soos Ramirez took over the Shack when the Stan brothers set off for their voyage. The Shack's full address is 618 Gopher Road, Gravity Falls, Oregon. Occupying at least 3 square miles (7.77 sq km), it has two upper stories and three basement levels. History The shack was originally the home of Ford Pines, during his studies of Gravity Falls. The estate was bought from "Northwest Realty", and the shack was built by a young Manly Dan. Through Ford's investigation of the Great Flood of 1863, he learnt that the land the Shack was built on was a mass grave of victims from the Flood. After his disappearance, his brother, Stan Pines, began to inhabit the shack in order to rescue his brother. As a business, the Mystery Shack, originally "The Murder Hut", was first created by Stan Pines, in an attempt to raise money to pay his brother's mortgage. He started the business by faking his identity, pretending to be his brother, Ford. Tourists decided to visit the shack to see what was inside the mysterious man's home. His first tour was successful and fulfilled Stan's goal of raising money for the rent. Stan has lived in the Mystery Shack for decades, and at some point, he added a museum to it after people showed their interest in knowing what was inside. For some time, one of the most lucrative exhibits was the Wax Museum of Mystery, though Stan closed it after tourists stopped coming to see all of it. There was also a costume store near the site fifteen years ago. Stan runs and resides at the Shack, and Dipper and Mabel Pines spent their first summer away from home there as of 2012. The Pines, Wendy Corduroy, and Soos Ramirez make up the staff. In "Dreamscaperers," Gideon Gleeful has his father partially demolish the Shack with a wrecking ball after he successfully steals the deed to the building. Gideon had made plans to build an amusement park called "Gideon Land" over the property in "Gideon Rises." The Shack was quickly rebuilt soon after Gideon was arrested. In "Scary-oke," the shack was wrecked again by a zombie attack but it was fixed soon after. Stan claimed it was a "big woodpecker" when a construction worker asked. In "Not What He Seems," the Shack suffers extensive damage due to the gravity anomalies caused by the Universe portal. By the events of "Dungeons, Dungeons, and More Dungeons," the Shack has been temporarily closed for repairs. Later in the episode, a wall is destroyed by Probabilitor's "math ray" which pushes back construction even more. During the events of "The Last Mabelcorn," the Mystery Shack is shown to have been fully repaired. Ford is shown to possess the Mystery Shack's architectural plans. Dipper and Ford managed to create an invisible Bill-proof shield around it to prevent anyone within the Mystery Shack from being manipulated by Bill Cipher. In "Roadside Attraction," when the Pines family, Grenda and Candy return to the Shack, they witness it being vandalized by the victims of Stan's pranks. Despite those pranks being out of revenge. In "Weirdmageddon 2: Escape From Reality," it is revealed that Stan,...

---

GRAVITY FALLS, OREGON
Gravity Falls is a mysterious lumber town and titular location in eastern , in Roadkill County. It was founded by Quentin Trembley, but in an attempt to cover Trembley's existence was said to be founded by Nathaniel Northwest. It is also an epicenter for supernatural occurrences and paranormal activity. It is where Stan Pines runs the Mystery Shack, a tourist trap which overcharges unlucky visitors for a glimpse at the world's most bizarre museum. 12-year-old twin siblings Dipper and Mabel Pines, who are Stan's great-nephew and great-niece, are sent to stay with Stan for the summer, which leads them to discover the different yet curious wonders of Gravity Falls. History Ancient Times The future site of the valley of Gravity Falls was originally inhabited by Dinosaurs, over 65,000,000 years BCE. Uniquely, the prehistoric beasts of the area did not perish from the impact of a meteor, as purported by the common theory; conversely, many became buried alive in tree sap, preserved within the bowels of the Earth and remaining there for eons. According to tree ring interruptions and radiation tests, the entire valley of Gravity Falls was formed by an alien spaceship crash-landing into Earth around 35 million years later. Whether the craft caused the town's strange properties or the place's strange properties attracted the craft is still unknown, however numerous anomalies such as electrical interference and sick livestock are linked to the ship's existence beneath the town. The first human inhabitants of the valley were Gravity Falls' native population, who mysteriously evacuated around 1000 AD after a shaman named Modoc learned of the prophecy that foretold the dreadful Weirdmageddon from his interactions with Bill Cipher. The valley was deemed a "cursed land" by the natives, who left behind troves of pottery, blankets, and art in local caves, relics that would one day be hoarded by the Northwests. As explained in the episode "The Stanchurian Candidate," the Town Charter stipulates that Gravity Falls mayor elections are based on two events: The Wednesday Stump Speech, held on an actual stump, and the Friday Debate wherein townsfolk throw birdseed at the candidate they like most. At the end, they release a freedom eagle who will fly to the candidate covered in more seed and bestow a birdly kiss upon him, anointing him mayor. The Town Charter defines a worthy candidate as "anyone who can cast a shadow, count to ten and throw their hat into the provided ring." Notable residents *Stan Pines is the stingy owner of the Mystery Shack, a tourist trap which overcharges unlucky visitors for a glimpse at the world's most bizarre museum, and which once had a room filled with wax figures. *Soos Ramirez is a lovable "man-child" who works at the Mystery Shack gift shop. He is a good friend of Dipper and Mabel Pines. He and Dipper enjoy doing so-called "boy stuff" together, like heating hot dogs, one by one, until they explode in the microwave. *Wendy Corduroy is a mellow and cool teen who is a part-time worker at the Mystery Shack. Dipper has a huge crush on her. Wendy can be fun until her rambunctious teenage friends show up. *Robbie Valentino is a stereotypical moody teenager and is the lead guitarist for his band. He is the ex-boyfriend of Wendy and rival of Dipper Pines. *Ma and Pa Duskerton (former residents) were the owners of the Dusk 2 Dawn convenience store. Their ghosts live in and haunt said store. *Deputy Durland is part of the lazy and sarcastic local law enforcement team of Gravity Falls, along with Sheriff Blubs, who deem every case unsolvable...

---

TIME BABY
Chronelius Infinitium Titanicus the Infinitieth, known more commonly as Time Baby, is the abstract embodiment of time that governs and devours the space-time continuum, maintaining the stability of the infinite multiverse.

History

The Time Baby is the abstract embodiment of time forged in the crucible of reality itself by the celestial chrono-giants, gods of time, a primordial race of creation charged with controlling all time in the infinite multiverse. and weighs approximately nine trillion tons. According to the Northwest Cover-up, Time Baby was frozen in an Antarctic glacier for several thousand years until he was eventually freed in the distant future due to global warming, after which he wreaks havoc on human civilization, ultimately overpowering all opposition and ascending to Multiversal domination.

After Dipper and Mabel Pines compromise Time Anomaly Removal Crew agent Blendin Blandin's mission in Gravity Falls, Oregon in "The Time Traveler's Pig," Time Baby blames the operative for the incident, sends him to remove the anomalies caused by Dipper and Mabel's time traveling, and then sentences him to "ten squared" lifetimes in the Infinetentiary.
*After his battle against Bill Cipher, he crashed down to earth and killed the dinosaurs.
*Time Baby's voice actor was uncredited until "Weirdmageddon Part 1."
*Along with Alex Hirsch, Time Baby "hosted" the behind the scenes special Between the Pines.
*In Journal 3, it is stated that his giant metal diaper has the ability to control the rotation of the Earth. It also states that Time Baby still says "pasghetti" and "libary", is easily distracted by jingling keys and when he's burped, it's measured on the Richter scale used for earthquakes.

References

de:Zeit-Baby
ru:Дитя Времени
es:Bebé del Tiempo
nl:Tijd Baby
pt-br:Bebê do Tempo
it:Bambino del Tempo
Category:Season 1 creatures
Category:Season 2 creatures
Category:Recurring creatures
Category:Deceased
Category:Males
Category:Games creatures
Category:Former antagonists
Category:Gods

---

SUMMERWEEN TRICKSTER
The Summerween Trickster is a mysterious creature who is part of Gravity Falls local legend. He is said to punish children who do not show proper respect to the Summerween spirit. History The Summerween Trickster first appears spying on Dipper from a nearby bush as he discards rejected "loser candy." At the front door of the Mystery Shack, Dipper offends the Trickster, disguised by a mask and coat, by repeatedly closing the door and refusing to give him the candy he desires, believing that he is overage and telling him to go visit another house. When Mabel willingly opens the door and apologizes, the creature enters and threatens to eat Dipper, Mabel, Grenda, and Candy alive if they are unable to acquire five hundred pieces of candy by the time the last jack-o'-melon burns out. He then demonstrates this by devouring a young child known as Gorney, who tells them to remember him. Then, he crawls over the roof out of sight. Dipper, who anticipated joining Wendy at a Summerween party, has no other choice but to join the others in trick-or-treating. When Dipper refuses to wear a costume and they get only one piece of candy each, however, the Trickster reappears and frightens the gang. The kids are eventually able to obtain enough pieces of candy, but when Dipper hides the candy by pushing it into a nearby bush as Wendy and Robbie pass by, he later discovers that the candy had fallen into a river. The Summerween Trickster then finally confronts the children, upset to discover that the candy had been lost. He then attempts to devour the children, but is smashed apart by Soos in a pickup truck. Convinced that the monster is done for, they drive away with Soos, only for the pieces of the Trickster to reassemble into an even more hideous and malformed beast. The gang crash into the Summerween Superstore and hide among the shelves, as the monster begins to search for them furiously. They then use costumes to disguise themselves in order to escape, but when Soos draws sound from an electronic laughing skull, he was devoured. The kids begin to use costume weapons to strike him repeatedly. The monster then grabs the children and reveals its true face and explains that he was made from "loser candy" and every year he plots to avenge all the candy that had been ignored and discarded by the children of Gravity Falls. Soos (and Gorney) then emerge from the monster, bursting out from its body, and begin to feast on the beast's candy innards. The monster then cries in joy after finally being viewed as savory, if only by Soos. In "Society of the Blind Eye" when Old Man McGucket's memories are shown, he mentions stealing a hat from a scarecrow, which is likely the Summerween Trickster. Appearance The Summerween Trickster first appears to be an unusually tall (13 feet tall), extremely deep purple and humanoid entity with twig-like limbs. In this form, he wears a patchwork suit jacket, a yellow mask of a smiling jack-o'-lantern face with one tooth and a shoddy brown hat with a darker brown band similar in style to one often worn by Old Man McGucket. This form is eventually found to be a ruse however, as the Trickster sheds his disguise and reveals himself to be a being made entirely of discarded and forgotten "Loser candy," such as black licorice or candy corn. In this form, he can change shape at will, growing additional limbs to aid in mobility and changing size as well. His "face" underneath the...

---

GREMLOBLIN
The  is a half gremlin, half goblin creature that lives within the Gravity Falls Forest.

History

At some point before the events of the series, Ford came across the Gremloblin, and studied its strengths, weaknesses, and other features, chronicling them in Journal 3.

Season 1

In "Boss Mabel," Dipper sets out to find an authentic supernatural attraction for the Mystery Shack, as his sister (who is now the temporary boss of the Shack), encourages him to do so. After he successfully brings back the Gremloblin, he cages it and shows it to a few tourists, who claim that it is fake, but when two of them look into the creature's eyes, they see their worst nightmare. Later, Mabel puts a key in the monster's cage for it to unlock his cage if it ever wanted to take a five minute break, as it is "sort of an employee." When it does, the Gremloblin trashes the gift shop and eats their profits. The twins are then forced to cower and hide for some time before deciding to confront it. As Dipper reads in Journal 3 that water should only be used as a last resort when fighting the creature, as it will make it stronger and scarier, Mabel rushes in and splashes a glass of water on it, not hearing the full sentence. She is quickly captured by the beast and, just as she looks into its eyes, her brother diverts the creature's gaze to its reflection in a mirror, causing it to see its worst nightmare, wearing glasses like its father. This terrifies the monster, and it flies away from the Shack.

In "Gideon Rises," while looking for ideas to defeat Gideon in Journal 3, Dipper briefly considers using the creature when seeing its entry pages in the journal.

Season 2

In "Into the Bunker," the Shape Shifter briefly impersonates the Gremloblin.

In "Weirdmageddon 2: Escape From Reality," the page for the Gremloblin in Journal 3 is shown when Bill's eye flashes through the journal's pages.

Appearance

True to its name, the creature has traits of both a goblin and a gremlin. He has red glowing eyes without pupils, and they glow yellow when one stares into them. He is muscular, has green skin, clumps of body hair, and a prominent lower jaw with two large fangs protruding out of it. Mushrooms coat his shoulders and hair his arms, and his ears are pointed like a bat's. It has an immense size to begin with, and grows bigger upon contact with water, as well as sprouting spikes and bat-like wings from his back.

Powers and abilities

The Gremloblin has an assortment of unique abilities, notably the power to make others visualize their worst nightmare, which may result in the victim going insane upon eye contact (this power can also be used on himself if he stares at his reflection). He seems to possess some level of intelligence, as evidenced when he reads Mabel's note and then uses a key she left with the note to escape his cage, and can talk (albeit not clearly). Additionally, the beast can breathe fire, grows spikes on his back, sprout wings, and becomes more menacing when he makes contact with water. His claws emit neurotoxin.

Sightings

References

ru:Гремоблин
es:Gremnomo
pt-br:w:c:pt-br.umveraodemisterios:Duembrete
bg:Гремблинът
Category:Season 1 creatures
Category:Season 2 creatures
Category:Recurring creatures
Category:Antagonists
Category:Males
Category:Species

---

JOURNAL 1
Journal #1 is a cryptic journal written by Stanford Pines, and formerly owned by Stanley Pines. It is the first in a series of journals, including Journal 2 (formerly owned by Gideon Gleeful, later by Stan Pines) and Journal 3 (owned by Dipper Pines). It focuses on Stanford's first three years in Gravity Falls. It also includes information on mystical beasts, geographical anomalies, and Stanford's "30-Hour arm wrestling challenge with a unicorn." It was thought to be destroyed along with Journals 2 and 3 by Bill Cipher during the events of Weirdmageddon, but after Bill's demise, it was found unharmed with the other Journals, although all three were thrown into the Bottomless Pit soon after. History of the Journal Over thirty years before Dipper and Mabel Pines' arrival in Gravity Falls, Ford documented the strange and paranormal activities of Gravity Falls. Out of paranoia he was being watched, Ford began hiding his three books in various areas of the town, hoping to keep their knowledge secret to prevent the opening of the Interdimensional Portal. After hiding the second and third, he entrusted hiding Journal 1 to his brother Stan, but Stan became enraged when the pair had just reunited after so long only for him to be sent away again. Stan responded by threatening to burn the journal, resulting in an all-out brawl between the two brothers that inadvertently activated the Universe Portal and sent Ford through it. In a desperate last act, Ford threw the journal back to Stan, crying for him to "do something," but he vanished before the panicking Stan could act. Stan tried repeatedly to turn the portal back on but was unable to do so with only Journal 1s contents, thus beginning his quest to reunite all three. The journal makes its first appearance in "Gideon Rises," in which Stan reveals himself to be its owner, and uses the other journals to activate the Universe Portal beneath the Mystery Shack. Later it makes a reappearance in "Scary-oke" as Stan continues his plans, plotting to keep his project and the journals hidden from the twins. When Dipper, Mabel, and Soos go to Stan's basement in "Not What He Seems", Dipper discovers that Stan had both Journal 1 and Journal 2. Ford gives the journal to Mabel to aid her in her quest for unicorn hair in "The Last Mabelcorn". As of "Dipper and Mabel vs. the Future," the Floating Cliffs page is mentioned as Ford reveals he discovered the cliffs and valley of the town were formed by a crashing flying saucer millions of years ago. In "Weirdmageddon Part 1," Bill burns Journal 1 along with Journal 2 and Journal 3. After the series The journals were recovered by Soos, apparently unharmed after Weirdmageddon had ended, and he brought the journals to Dipper. Apparently, defeating Bill didn't just un-weird the town, it also restored many things he destroyed, including the journals. After Dipper kept the Journals to himself for a few days, he revealed them to Ford. The family decided to throw them into the Bottomless Pit to rid themselves of the trouble caused by them, and because things thrown into the pit could end up anywhere. Contents The Crawlspace The page has a drawing of a gnome with patch opening the entrance in a washing machine, below there is a series of symbols and a description of the market. To the sides of the page, there is a drawing of a fairy coming out of the red light of a traffic light, and that of a latrine. Enchanted Forest The page is a drawing of...

---

BUNKER
The bunker is an underground hideout constructed by Ford Pines and Fiddleford McGucket, used as a base of operations for their experiments, and a shelter in the event of disaster. History Over thirty years ago, Fiddleford brought up the topic of a more secure laboratory he and Ford could use to study dangerous creatures they might find when their portal to the weirdness dimension was activated. Ford, despite being reluctant to postpone their work on the portal, agreed that a new lab space was necessary and allowed Fiddleford to begin planning its layout—however, unbeknownst to him, Fiddleford was also increasingly fearful of Gravity Falls’ oddities and the prospect of encountering more, and he designed the lab to function as a bunker complete with fallout shelter and lethal security system. Both Ford and Fiddleford participated in the building of the bunker, excavating the area and hiding their lab beneath an artificial tree within the Gravity Falls Forest. Ford was by this point extremely paranoid about the idea of someone with nefarious intentions discovering and stealing his research, and demanded that he and his assistant be the only two people to know about the bunker. Meanwhile, Fiddleford was hugely anxious to gain a sanctuary from the weirdness of Gravity Falls, and so went behind Ford’s back to secretly hire lumberjacks to hasten the construction speed, using the Memory Gun on both them and his boss to clear his tracks. While excavating the land for the bunker, Ford discovered an egg containing the Shape Shifter, who would become one of the bunker’s experimental specimens due to his DNA possessing the unique power to constantly metamorphose. Ford was fascinated by him, keeping him in a cage and tracking his progress despite Fiddleford’s uneasy reminders that they were only keeping him around to test their cryogenic freezing chambers. As the Shape Shifter grew in ability and intelligence, he became more and more fascinated by the potential of the monsters contained within Ford’s journal, which Ford refused to show him to keep him less dangerous. Eventually, the Shape Shifter grew fed up with this and used his powers to impersonate Fiddleford in an attempt to steal the journal, but his ruse was foiled when Ford discovered the Shape Shifter’s broken cage and Fiddleford tied up in a closet. The two men lured him into a cryogenic chamber with a decoy journal and froze him there. After this incident, both agreed to seal the bunker off for piece of mind, an action which unwittingly prevented the Shape Shifter from reaching the outside world after his escape from cryogenic stasis an unknown length of time after being trapped. Ford returned to the bunker after his betrayal by Bill Cipher to hide his third journal in a nearby compartment controlled by the same artificial tree. From then on the area would lie dormant for decades as its creators either disappeared or lost their memories of the place. Season 1 Dipper first finds the bunker's exterior after coming across its artificial tree in "Tourist Trapped," eventually locating the security mechanism used in hiding Journal 3. Intrigued by its content, Dipper retreats to the Mystery Shack to reveal his findings to Mabel. Season 2 The bunker's interior is unveiled in "Into the Bunker," when Dipper, Mabel, Soos and Wendy explore the location after learning of it in Journal 3. Their investigation is cut short, however, when the Shape Shifter attempts to destroy them, leading them into a destructive skirmish that ultimately lands him in the fate Ford originally intended; frozen in cryogenic stasis. Despite their failure to learn Ford's true identity,...

---

JOURNAL 3
Journal #3 is a mysterious journal written by Stanford Pines, that was later discovered by Dipper Pines. It is the third and final installment in a series of journals preceded by Journal #1 and Journal #2. It contains an encyclopedic collection of information on the variety of paranormal and supernatural creatures living in Gravity Falls, Oregon. A real-life adaption of the journal was published on July 26, 2016. The standard edition contained the show's contents of Journal 3, as well as additional information. History Over thirty years prior to Dipper and Mabel's arrival in Gravity Falls, Stanford Pines recorded and compiled a list of all the creatures and paranormal entities inhabiting the town, following his completion of Journal 1 and Journal 2. Fearful he was being watched by malevolent forces, Ford hid his three journals in separate and elaborate locations around Gravity Falls, hoping to keep the knowledge needed to activate the Interdimensional Portal away from evil forces. Designing a security mechanism hidden above his bunker, Ford kept Journal 3 hidden for years until his disappearance through the Interdimensional Portal. Season 1 uncovers the compartment containing Journal 3.]] The journal is found by Dipper in "Tourist Trapped," when he unknowingly locates Ford's artificial metal tree in the forest. Activating a switch that revealed its hiding chamber, he immediately relocates to the Mystery Shack, and uses Journal 3s information to believe that Mabel's new found boyfriend, "Norman," is in fact, a zombie. During his investigation, he discovers that Norman is actually a disguise fabricated by a group of gnomes, to which the journal has no knowledge of defeating. Following their defeat, he uses the blank pages of Journal 3 to document his own adventures with the town, learning to trust some of the town's residents. Journal 3 continues to assist Dipper in his encounters with the supernatural, including guiding him into a cave behind a waterfall in "The Legend of the Gobblewonker," during which he, Mabel and Soos flee from Old Man McGucket's Gobblewonker robot. In "Headhunters," Dipper flips through a few pages at the scene of Wax Stan's murder, and is seen reading it at the living room table after Mabel returns from her first date with Gideon Gleeful in "The Hand That Rocks the Mabel." Dipper shows the page on ghosts to Mabel in the gift shop in "The Inconveniencing," and later to Wendy Corduroy and her friends. Journal 3 returns in "Irrational Treasure," the twins read about the town law stating it is legal to marry woodpeckers, and later, after Pacifica Northwest teases Mabel, read about and investigate the possibility of Nathaniel Northwest, alleged town founder and great-great grandfather of Pacifica, being a fraud. Dipper reads about height-altering crystals in "Little Dipper," wishing to use them to make himself taller, and checks on its position in his vest pocket as Gideon Gleeful interrogates him about how he came upon the crystals. Later, Dipper uses the journal to help him catch a Gremloblin in "Boss Mabel." In "Bottomless Pit!," Mabel, who reads it for the first time in the series, uses the journal to uncover the Truth Telling Teeth. Dipper is seen reading the floating eyeballs and giant vampire bats pages of the journal in "Land Before Swine," and uses it to follow Bill Cipher into Stan's mindscape in "Dreamscaperers." Journal 3 plays a key role in Dipper and Mabel's plan to reclaim the Mystery Shack's deed in "Gideon Rises," eventually agreeing to ally with the gnomes. When the plot fails, Journal 3 falls into Gideon's hands, who believes he has found Journal 1, but quickly learns of the...

---

JOURNAL 2
Journal #2 is a mysterious journal written by Stanford Pines and temporarily owned by Gideon Gleeful and later Stanley Pines. It is the second in a series of journals, preceded by Journal #1 and followed by Journal #3, and contains information on various supernatural items and spells found in Gravity Falls. History Over thirty years before the start of the series, Ford recorded and compiled a variety of spells and information on enchanted items of Gravity Falls within Journal 2 following the completion of Journal 1. Out of paranoia that he was being watched, he hid his three books in various areas of the town, choosing to bury Journal 2 near Gravity Falls Elementary. By keeping their knowledge separate from one another, he hoped the information necessary to activate the Interdimensional Portal would never be deciphered. The journal eventually found its way into the hands of Gideon Gleeful, who found it buried near his Elementary School. Using it to enlighten himself on the paranormal activities of his town and locate the Mystic Amulet, which he exploited as part of his child psychic act for his tourist trap, the Tent of Telepathy. Driven by a hunger for ultimate power, Gideon sought what he believed to be the only remaining book, Journal 1, and unite them to unleash a gateway of unimaginable power. Upon learning the journal was likely buried within the grounds of his rival tourist trap, Stan's Mystery Shack, a rivalry between the two was born. Season 1 Journal 2 makes its first physical appearance in "The Hand That Rocks the Mabel," when the destruction of the mystic amulet at the hands of Dipper and Mabel leaves Gideon searching for a supernatural method of revenge within the book. In "Little Dipper," Gideon continues his plans for vengeance against the Pines family, considering multiple plans of attack before deciding on stealing the Mystery Shack's deed from Stan. Gideon repeats an incantation from Journal 2 to summon the dream demon Bill Cipher, making a deal with him to steal Stan's deed to the Mystery Shack in "Dreamscaperers." When the plan fails, Gideon instead uses dynamite to obtain it, thus acquiring the shack for his own as stated in the town's Finders Keepers Law. Now in possession of the property, Gideon begins his search for Journal 1 with the help of his own journal in "Gideon Rises," eventually believing to have acquired it but instead having obtained Journal 3. Upon his arrest, Stan locates Journal 2 and covertly takes it alongside the deed to the Mystery Shack, combining it with the other journals to activate the Universe Portal. Season 2 In "Scary-oke," Journal 2 briefly appears still resting in Stan's laboratory, alongside its counterparts. It is still in Stan's lab with the other two journals as of "Not What He Seems." In "Dungeons, Dungeons, and More Dungeons," Dipper tells Ford that he has read about the Cycloptopus in Journal 2. In "The Stanchurian Candidate," Ford flips open the journal to the Blood Rain page, which is next to a torn-out page; he brings the journal along when he and Dipper travel into the UFO in "Dipper and Mabel vs. the Future." In "Weirdmageddon Part 1," Bill burns Journal 2 alongside the other two journals. After the series The journals were recovered by Soos, apparently unharmed after Weirdmageddon had ended. Soos brought the journals to Dipper. Apparently, defeating Bill didn't just de-weird the town, it also restored many things he destroyed, including the journals. After Dipper kept the Journals to himself for a few days, he revealed them to Ford. The family decided to...

---

SOCIETY OF THE BLIND EYE
""

Cut Scenes

Several deleted and cut scenes from the episode were revealed in the Complete Series Box Set:
* Wendy sees that Stan has also heard Straight Blanchin and is singing it too, calling it catchy, later listening to it after everyone leaves for McGucket.
* The Museum security guard is seen locking up the museum with multiple locks, only to then leave a window open which allows the gang to sneak in.
* After having her mind erased, Lazy Susan is tricked by Blind Ivan into donating to the society.
* One of the members expresses concerns about the society abusing their power in wiping people's minds. After hearing it, Ivan wipes everyone's mind so that they no longer have any more complaints.

Cryptograms

*The Journal 3 entry on the Blind Eye has a symbol cipher that says, ",." which translates to "IF MY SUSPICIONS ARE CORRECT, THIS IS THE WORK OF FIDDLEFORD. DOES HE REALLY HAVE TO GO TO SUCH GREAT LENGTHS TO FORGET?"

*At the end of Old Man McGucket's memories, he says "YROO XRKSVI! GIRZMTOV," and forms a triangle over his eye with his fingers. He is actually speaking in Atbash, and when translated he says "BILL CIPHER! TRIANGLE," hinting that Bill Cipher may have had something to do with McGucket's past. He said this again in a few episodes later in "A Tale of Two Stans."
*During the ending credits, there is a cryptogram that reads "MXNGVEECW MW SLAWW. SUL FPZSK MW SOJMRX." Using the vigenère cipher, it translates to "IGNORANCE IS BLISS. BUT BLISS IS BORING."
**Keyword: ERASE, found on the spine of the triceratops.

*The page section revealed at the end of the episode says, "17-15-20-19-9-10'5 4-23-10-4-6-3-11-5, '11-15-5-5-8-19-12-12-19-20, 4-23-4-4-9-9-5," on the top left, "23 18-19-23-6 9-18 1-15-4-21-16-19-5, 23 12-15-18-19 9-18 6-19-17-6-19-4," on the top right, "5-16-23-10-20-6-23'5 6-19-14-19-21-4-15-9-10-5, 5-9-21-15-19-4-25'5 2-15-19-1-5," on the bottom left, and "4-16-19-5-19 23-6-19 18-9-6-17-19-4" on the bottom right. After using the combined cipher, it translates to "GIDEON'S TANTRUMS, MISSPELLED TATTOOS, SHANDRA'S REJECTIONS, SOCIETY'S VIEWS, A FEAR OF WITCHES, A LIFE OF REGRET, THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT THEY TRY TO FORGET." Each of the forgotten memories corresponds to a different member of the Blind Eye Society (and one ex-Blind Eye, McGucket). The completed cipher has a similar lyrical structure to "My Favorite Things" from the musical The Sound of Music.

References

ru:Общество Слепого Глаза
es:La Sociedad del Ojo Cegado
nl:Het Genootschap van het Blinde Oog (aflevering)
it:La società dell'occhio di Tenebra
vi:Hội Mù Lòa
pt-br:A Sociedade do Olho Cego
bg:Общество на слепите очи
Category:Episodes
Category:Season 2 episodes
Category:Episodes animated by Rough Draft Korea

---

BLIND IVAN
"Blind" Ivan Wexler, currently known as 'Toot-Toot McBumbersnazzle', was the leader of the Blind Eye Society. History Early life When he was a teenager, Ivan Wexler worked as a carny at the fair. The other carnies made fun of him for the unusual tattoos on his forehead that resembled the defunct scientific field of phrenology, which angered Ivan. When he told them to stop making fun of his tattoos, they locked him up in the "Haunted Freak House" for an entire night, which was a deeply traumatic experience for him. This caused Ivan to lose sleep for weeks and wish he could forget the whole ordeal. When he explained his tragic backstory to Fiddleford Hadron McGucket, he whispered something to Ivan and handed him a piece of paper with a strange symbol on it. Ivan later joined the ranks of the Blind Eye Society as a means of both keeping the supernatural secrets of the town hidden and suppressing his regretful memories. He eventually gained the status as leader of the organization, albeit more malicious and conniving than that of his predecessor, Fiddleford. Season 2 In "Society of the Blind Eye," Ivan oversees the erasing of Lazy Susan's memories after she discovers Gravity Falls' population of gnomes. When Dipper, Mabel, Soos, Wendy, and McGucket learn of the society's actions, he later takes part in a manhunt to capture and warp the group's memories of their summer. However, he is defeated by Fiddleford McGucket, who has grown immune to the memory gun's effects due to his fractured psyche from its repeated use on himself in the past. Ultimately, Dipper resolves to ironically erase Ivan and the other society member's memories of the existence of the Blind Eye Society, with Ivan's deep ties in the organization causing him to suffer long-term memory loss. Having lost complete knowledge of his identity, Mabel convinces him he is a traveling banjo minstrel named "Toot-Toot McBumbersnazzle," a role that Ivan happily adapts to by singing his name with joy and pride. Ivan is briefly seen at the Woodstick festival in "The Love God," wandering around with a puzzled but content smile, implying he is still suffering from his memory loss. In "Weirdmageddon Part 1," a gearshift strongly resembling his head can be seen within a car that Bill Cipher summons while leaving with the Henchmaniacs. Gravity Falls: Lost Legends In the story "Face It", it's apparent that Mr. What's-His-Face stole Blind Ivan's face at some point after the events of "The Society of the Blind Eye" (since it still has the word "BUTTS" written by Mabel on his forehead). Personality Ivan is a mysterious character who prefers to keep his identity a secret, trusting only fellow Blind Eye Society members. While Ivan claims the society does good, he demonstrates numerous less than ideal traits. For example, he is extremely overconfident, irritable; and cocky, which often backfires on him, and he is ruthless and cruel in protecting the Society's secrets. He prefers to ignore difficult thoughts, such as guilt, and erases such thoughts from his mind. It seems that his entire being revolves around the Society, to the point where he literally forgets who he is when his memory of the Society is erased, and becomes a highly impressionable, blissful simpleton afterwards. Appearance Ivan is a thin man, with a gaunt skeletal face and grayish skin. His right eye is pink and has a red X over it. He is bald and has numerous tattoos accross his head. The tattoos resemble phrenology maps and includes sections for: color, size, form, weight (the four of which make out...

---

CIPHER HUNT
next to the statue of Bill Cipher.|285px]] Cipher Hunt was an ARG () about Gravity Falls, created by series creator Alex Hirsch. The goal of the entire game was to find an actual statue of Bill Cipher, briefly glimpsed in the series finale, by retrieving and decoding clues hidden in various locations around the world. The first ones to the statue received a prize, though the hunt was mainly about the journey and not the destination. It began on July 20, 2016 and was finished on August 2, 2016. Creation In the Gravity Falls behind-the-scenes documentary One Crazy Summer, which was included as a special feature in the Gravity Falls: The Complete Series collector's edition DVD box set released by Shout! Factory, series creator Alex Hirsch discussed the origins of the Cipher Hunt. As Gravity Falls is a show about mystery, Hirsch wanted to give fans one final mystery that no one was expecting and that no show had ever done before. He very quickly came up with the idea of sending fans on a worldwide treasure hunt for a real life Bill Cipher statue. Hirsch recruited the show's art director Ian Worrel to assist him with planning out the hunt. Worrel designed a spreadsheet of all of the locations that would be used in the hunt. Hirsch got a friend of a friend of his, Fon Davis, a prop fabricator for movies and a judge on the ABC robot combat game show BattleBots at Fonco Studios, to design and build a statue of Bill Cipher out of plexiglass, as it's made to withstand the elements. They rubbed glue with seeds in it on the statue, so that it would start to grow moss and look like it had been in the woods for years. Hirsch then took a trip to Reedsport, Oregon and got in contact with Fon's ex wife who had a friend there that was willing to let him install a statue on their property that people would hunt for. They then drove the statue up to Reedsport, installed the statue in the ground, and recorded a few seconds of footage of the statue to insert into the end of Gravity Falls series finale, "Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back The Falls". After the finale aired on Disney XD on February 15, 2016, Hirsch took a trip to a couple of conventions and vacation spots and he would secretly leave behind a clue for the hunt at every place he visited. *This is an unofficial fan tribute treasure hunt made just by Alex Hirsch! It has no affiliation with any company! *No trespassing/vandalism. Everything is in a public place. Be respectful of your surroundings! Don't be a dummy! *Be careful - you search at your own risk! Like ', keep an eye out for ! *If you encounter Bill, whatever you do, don't shake his hand! Summary Overview The beginning Fans theorized that there was a real-life statue of Bill Cipher exists somewhere in the world based on of the end of the series' final episode, "Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back The Falls," which contains both a clip of a real Bill statue surrounded by a wooded area and an encoded riddle hinting at the presence of buried treasure "deep within the woods" and a statue "beyond the rusty gates". Alex Hirsch and the team behind Gravity Falls did not talk about the presence of a statue in the months following the end of the show until the silence was broken on July 20, 2016. On that date, Hirsch tweeted "Are you guys ready?" and then proceeded to begin the...